#### 5.1.1 Vectors

_If some characters seem to be missing, it's because MathJax is not loaded correctly. Refreshing the page should fix it._

1. Dot product
    1. [E] What’s the geometric interpretation of the dot product of two vectors? 

        *Answer:* The dot product of two vectors can be interpreted geometrically as the product of the magnitude of one vector and the projection of the other vector onto it.

    2. [E] Given a vector $$u$$, find vector $$v$$ of unit length such that the dot product of $$u$$ and $$v$$ is maximum.
        
        *Answer:* Since the projection of $u$ is maximum when $v$ is along $u$. So $v = \hat{u}$, a unit vector along $u$.

2. Outer product
    1. [E] Given two vectors $$a = [3, 2, 1]$$ and  $$b = [-1, 0, 1]$$. Calculate the outer product $$a^Tb$$?

        *Answer:* $[3,2,1]^T[-1,0,1] = [[-3,0,1],[-2,0,2],[-1,0,1]]$


    2. [M] Give an example of how the outer product can be useful in ML.

        *Answer:*
        1. The outer product of a point to itself can be used to create a higher-dimensional representation of a data point
        2. The outer product can be used to take two input vectors and create a new matrix, which can be used as a feature vector for an algorithm such as a neural network. 

3. [E] What does it mean for two vectors to be linearly independent?
    
    *Answer:* Two or more vectors are said to be linearly independent if none of them can be written as a linear combination of the others.

4. [M] Given two sets of vectors $$A = {a_1, a_2, a_3, ..., a_n}$$ and $$B = {b_1, b_2, b_3, ... , b_m}$$. How do you check that they share the same basis?

    *Answer:* Consider matrix $M1 = [a_1^T,a_2^T..a_n^T]$ and matrix  $M2 = [b_1^T,b_2^T..b_m^T]$. If $M1$ and $M2$ have same [reduced row echelon form](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Row_echelon_form) (can be found by [Gaussian elimination](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaussian_elimination)). Then the set of vectors share same basis and span equivalent vector space.

5. [M] Given $$n$$ vectors, each of $$d$$ dimensions. What is the dimension of their span?

    *Answer:* We can find row echelon form of the $n$ vectors matrix. And number of non-zero rows in row echelon form denotes the rank of matrix, which is the dimension of their span.

6. Norms and metrics
	1. [E] What's a norm? What is $$L_0, L_1, L_2, L_{norm}$$?

        *Answer:* In linear algebra, a norm is a function that assigns a scalar magnitude to each vector in a vector space. It provides a measure of the size or magnitude of a vector and is used to quantify the distance between vectors in a space.

        The most commonly used norms are:

        1. $L_0$ Norm: The $L_0$ norm of a vector counts the number of non-zero elements in the vector, also called the "sparsity norm".

        2. $L_1$ Norm: The $L_1$ norm of a vector is defined as the sum of the absolute values of its elements, also called the "Manhattan distance".

        3. $L_2$ Norm: The $L_2$ norm of a vector is defined as the square root of the sum of the squares of its elements, also called the "Euclidean distance".
        4. $L_p$ Norm: The $L_p$ norm of a vector $x = (x_1,x_2..x_n)$ is $$\left|x\right|_p = \left(\sum_{i=1}^{n} |x_i|^p\right)^\frac{1}{p}$$
        5. $L_{\infty}$ Norm: The $L_{\infty}$ norm of a vector is defined as the maximum absolute value of its elements, also called the "maximum norm".

	2. [M] How do norm and metric differ? Given a norm, make a metric. Given a metric, can we make a norm?

        *Answer:*
        A norm and a metric are both functions that measure the size or magnitude of a vector, but they have different properties and uses.

        A norm is a function that satisfies the following three properties:

        Positivity: $\left|x\right| \ge 0$ and $\left|x\right| = 0$ only if $x = 0$
        
        Homogeneity: $\left|\alpha x\right| = |\alpha| \left|x\right|$ for all $\alpha \in \mathbb{R}$

        Triangle inequality: $\left|x + y\right| \le \left|x\right| + \left|y\right|$
        
        A metric, on the other hand, is a function that satisfies the following four properties:

        Positivity: $d(x, y) \ge 0$ and $d(x, y) = 0$ only if $x = y$
        
        Symmetry: $d(x, y) = d(y, x)$
        
        Triangle inequality: $d(x, y) \le d(x, z) + d(z, y)$
        
        Identity of indiscernibles: $d(x, y) = 0$ if and only if $x = y$
        
        Given a norm, we can create a metric by defining the distance between two points $x$ and $y$ as $d(x, y) = \left|x - y\right|$. This is a valid metric because the norm satisfies the triangle inequality and the metric must also satisfy the triangle inequality.

        Given a metric, it is not guaranteed that we can make a norm. A norm must satisfy the homogeneity property, which states that the magnitude of a vector must be proportional to a scalar multiple of the vector. However, some metrics may not satisfy this property. 
        Example: Hamming distance doesn't satisy homogenity